Utkarsh Pandya
Business Intelligence, Data Analytics, Business Analysis, and
Project Management Professional with Diverse Industry Experience,
Recently relocated from Australia to Ahmedabad Gujarat India.
Ahmedabad, Gujarat, India
Summary
• Experienced professional with 15+ years background in Business
Intelligence, Data Analytics, Business Process Improvement,
Software Project Management, and Business Operations
Management.
• Involved with the Executive Leadership Support Team, providing
support to top-level executives and contributing to decision-making
and business outcomes.
• Proficient in key performance indicators (KPIs), with the ability to
track and analyse data to drive business success.
• Strong knowledge of enterprise applications, inventory control,
accounting & finance, and Commercial Analytics.
• Skilled in various data analytics tools such as Tableau, Power BI,
Microsoft Platforms, Power Platforms, Custom Web Dashboards,
SAP S4 Hana, SAP Analytics, Power Query, Power Pivot, Visual
Basic for Applications (VBA), Microsoft Excel, SQL Server
Management Studio, SSAS, and SSIS.
• Experienced in business software like Microsoft Power Platforms,
Dynamics, SAP ERP, and SAP EWM.
• Proficient with business management tools such as Microsoft
Project, Microsoft Access dashboards, Monday.com, Zira, SAP
material planning modules, and others.
• Proven ability to optimize data-related activities and streamline
processes, resulting in improved data quality, faster processing
times, and better business outcomes.
• Expert in Inventory auditing, inventory control systems analysis,
and warehouse management, with comprehensive understanding
of data and processes related to inventory control and supply chain
logistics.
• Adept at data analysis, KPI tracking, and compliance & nonconformance reporting, ensuring data accuracy, relevance, and up to
date.
Page 1 of 8
• Experienced in project management and delivery on time and
within budget through exposure to agile project management and
business onboarding procedures.
• Unique blend of skills that extends beyond traditional data analysis,
including the implementation of Control Towers for centralized realtime views of data, workflows, and processes.
• Extensive IT software development life cycle exposure, supporting
business systems analysis, change management, User Acceptance
Testing (UAT), floor level implementation, and conflict resolution.
Experience
Self-employed
Global Portfolio Manager
July 2023 - Present (2 years 6 months)
Ahmedabad, Gujarat, India
Currently pursuing Technical skills around Equity Research, Investment
management, Portfolio management using Machine Learning, AI, Project
management services, Personal finance and People management
Winc Australia
3 years 4 months
Performance & Insights Lead - National Commercial Analytics Team
November 2022 - June 2023 (8 months)
Australia
• Data analysis: Use a variety of data analytics tools and approaches, including
as Tableau, Power BI, Microsoft Excel, SQL Server Management Studio, and
others, to analyse enormous amounts of data.
• KPI Tracking: Track and monitor key performance indicators (KPIs) relevant
to the commercial analytics team and the organization as a whole.
• Reporting: Prepare regular reports on performance and insights, including
compliance and non-conformance reporting, and provide recommendations for
improvement.
• Project Management: Manage commercial analytics projects from start to
finish, ensuring timely delivery and budget compliance.
• Inventory Management: Oversee inventory control systems and ensure
accuracy, relevance, and up-to-date data. Management of DC capacity overall
• Supply Chain Logistics: Manage and optimize data-related activities and
processes related to supply chain logistics.
Page 2 of 8
• Control Towers: Implement centralized, real-time views of data, workflows,
and processes (Control Towers) to enhance decision-making capabilities and
drive business outcomes.
• Business Systems Analysis: Support the analysis of business systems and
processes, including change management and User Acceptance Testing
(UAT).
• Business Operations Management: Oversee and optimize business
operations, ensuring data quality, processing times, and business outcomes.
• Stakeholder Communication: Communicate with stakeholders, including
top-level executives and other team members, to provide regular updates on
performance and insights.
• Agile Project Management: Ensure delivery of projects through agile project
management, including Transport agents onboarding and conflict resolution.
Inventory Management & BI Analytics
March 2020 - November 2022 (2 years 9 months)
Perth, Western Australia, Australia
Responsible for the thought leadership support and delivery of key initiatives
regarding process documentation, business process optimization, KPI
reporting, live dashboarding with Tableau & Power-BI, power query,
warehouse Level Control Tower Implementation, Supply chain operations
project management within WMS systems (SAP EWM) for the warehouse
locations in Western Australia.
WA DC Control Tower – Operations Analytics Control Center at WA DC
- Single handedly Conceptualized & Implemented Control Center based on
Daily SWOT Analysis (Strength, Weakness, Opportunity & Threat)
- Own the design, development and maintenance of all management reporting
and analytics capability across the DC align with National KPIs.
- Operational KPI & Data analysis for higher Performance & Productivity
such as Inbound productivity, Outbound productivity, Outbound production
WIP(Hourly), Inventory Slotting ABC dashboard, Hazardous Material Capacity
Live, WA DC Labor Analysis Dashboard & DIFOT Fails Analysis Dashboard
etc.
Commercial Performance
- Work with the Supply Planning & Logistics Operations, Finance stakeholders
to develop financial tracking KPI’s to be included in the Logistics Operations
Dashboard – Scorecards. Successfully implemented Logistics & Operations
Scorecards – National level Visibility with DC Drill down reports features
Page 3 of 8
- Create a continuous improvement mindset across the teams - identify and
quantifying opportunities for Supply chain quality improvement, developing
business cases and rolling projects out across the network to drive a step
change in service and ROI.
- Agree with all stakeholders the required KPI’s are that require drilled down
approach report detailing the current performance and target KPI performance
Inventory & Warehouse Operations Team & Executive Leadership Support
- Leading the WINC Inventory team – Perth Airport - WA DC - in a safe and
process-driven manner
Centurion
3 years 6 months
Project Management Officer - Business Analyst - Innovation Solutions
& Delivery
September 2016 - February 2020 (3 years 6 months)
Perth, Australia
As a Lead in BA Analytics Manager, I serve as a liaison and mediator
between multiple quality assurance teams of Centurion, including Operations,
Finance, Commercial, Data Management, Contract Service Delivery, Asset
Management, Supply Chain & Logistics, and Innovation & Technology
Solutions.
I also collaborate closely with the Core Information Technology team. My
role involves transcribing stakeholder requirements and managing projects to
ensure seamless integration and optimal results.
• BA process and project document analysis
• Business case development and viability analysis
• Mapping of business processes for effective performance management
• Re-engineering of business processes through critical analysis and review of
technical and commercial inputs
• Active engagement in data analytics
• Accelerated data warehouse project with focus on master data management,
data source optimization, accuracy, communication and training, data quality
assurance, and testing through data envelopment analysis.
• Management of user acceptance testing, reporting, analysis, and feedback
• Facilitation of communication between business and technology, as well
as cross-functional, cross-departmental, customer, technical, and crisis
communication
• Research, technical support, KPI reporting, and BI
• Project management of systems and technology
Page 4 of 8
Accomplishments
• Promoted as Technology Project Management Officer for the newly created
Innovation, Solutions & Delivery department under IT Core
• Central point of contact for Centurion's newly digitalized systems training and
enterprise-wide business processes such as Electronic Whiteboard, Electronic
Work Diaries, Investigation Workflows, Unified Job Management System, and
customized online services portals for key clients
• Successful implementation of the Anglo-American Business Onboarding
Process at East Coast Centurion branches in Brisbane and Mackay within the
first 90 days
Supply Chain Freight Officer – Non Conformance Administrator - Data
Analysis Officer
September 2016 - March 2018 (1 year 7 months)
Perth Airport
• Proven track record of professional and productive logistics coordination,
data analysis, and software system analysis
• Expertise in logistics and transport operations, including freight management,
transportation, and outstanding freight movement administration
• Operational data management for major client Rio Tinto's offsite Receivables
(OSR) facility, utilizing systems such as SAP, CTC ERP, freight management,
Job Management System, and Transport Management System
• Managed dangerous goods transport documents and permits for oversize/
overweight freight
• Conducted revenue leakage investigation and freight cubic auditing and
optimization
• Improved warehouse management processes, including recording and
adopting business processes
• Designed and implemented a new macro-based VBA excel spreadsheet
solution for reporting to operations management
• Generated, reviewed, analysed, and resolved Non-Conformance Reports
(NCRs) from major clients Rio Tinto, South32, CPM, and Murrin
Accomplishments:
• Received Employee of the Month award for designing software solutions and
implementation of Rio Small's Pallet vs. CTC Manifest Discrepancy report
• Terminated 65% of nonconformance issues with increased customer
satisfaction
• Promoted to Business Analyst position in Enterprise Core IT department from
Operations Data Management team.
Page 5 of 8
Family Business - Education Management -Local Software
Development Firms
Project Consultant - Education Management
February 2013 - September 2016 (3 years 8 months)
Ahmedabad, Gujarat, India
• Project Consulting and Administration role in Local Software Development
Industry (from an outsource perspective): This role involves providing
consulting and administrative support to software development projects in
the local industry. The focus is from an outsource perspective, meaning the
individual is likely working with or for a company that provides outsourcing
services to clients in the software development industry.
• Lead Coordinator role at an Educational Institute with Private Tutoring
Experience: In this role, the individual was a lead coordinator at an educational
institute. Additionally, they have experience in private tutoring, which suggests
they may have also provided one-on-one instructional support to students in a
variety of subjects.
Centurion
SAP Officer - Manifesting & NCR Administrator
June 2009 - January 2013 (3 years 8 months)
Perth, Australia
• Skilled in coordinating, recording, and creating consignments using versatile
systems (SAP, Freight Management, D3 data entry terminal, Dispatch
Manager, and Excel Spreadsheet applications)
• Experienced in arranging and reviewing dangerous goods transport
documents and organizing paperwork and permits for oversized/overweight
freight
• Adept in resolving freight discrepancies and generating, reviewing, and
analysing 48-hour outstanding freight movement reports in Centurion webbased system
• Expert in recording, amending, and adopting processes to manage storage
stock, obsolete stock, return to vendor freight, and collection by vendor freight
• Designed and implemented a new macro-based VBA Excel Spreadsheet
application for reporting purposes to improve precise freight tracking and trailer
utilization
• Skilled in managing Rio Tinto Non-Conformance Reports (NCR), generating,
reviewing, analysing, and investigating NCRs from the major client and
resolving issues raised by mine site departments and distribution centres
Page 6 of 8
• Performed manifesting tasks as a member of the operations supervisor crew
on Saturdays
• Experienced in implementing a new automated manifesting system and
communicating changes to the operations admin manager, IT development
director, and other supervisors
Accomplishments
• Awarded employee of the month for designing and implementing the
Rio Smalls Pallet vs. CTC Manifest Discrepancy Report based on VBA
programming under Excel Spreadsheet Application
• Terminated NCRs due to scanning non-compliance with 95 % Accuracy.
DB Schenker
Costing Officer-Air Import Department
January 2008 - October 2008 (10 months)
Sydney, Australia
• Invoicing and Target Costing: Proficient in invoicing and target costing and
able to produce cost reports.
• Customer Communication: Excellent communication skills and able to
communicate with customers regarding tax invoices, pricing, and cost
accounting.
• Job Costing and Cost Variance Analysis: Experienced in job costing and cost
variance analysis, able to record, review, and investigate cost variations and
contract price movements.
• Forecasting and Operational Risk Management: Ability to assist with
forecasting and operational risk management.
• Cost System Maintenance and Implementation: Skilled in cost system
maintenance and implementation, and able to review and strengthen systems
and processes for efficiency.
Additional Skills:
• Able to investigate data for the cost of proposed expenditures, quotations,
and estimates.
• Can provide information to assist in determining and calculating quotations
and tenders for future business.
• Experienced in internal communication with sales and account departments.
• Verified recorded transactions and reported irregularities to management for
the recent "Take over" of Bax-Global USA.
Accomplishments:
• The whole and sole point of contact for all costing related queries for the
recently taken over venture - Bax-Global USA at that time.
Page 7 of 8
Australian Stocktaking Security Services Australia, NSW
Inventory Services Contractor - 3rd Party Inventory Management
Solution
October 2005 - August 2008 (2 years 11 months)
• Vendor Managed Inventory: Managed stock management, stock
replenishment, and stock counting without disrupting client businesses.
• Inventory System: Developed a standalone data recording and manipulation
system, ensured inventory accuracy, valuation, and rolling stock management.
• Optimized Inventory: Optimized strong interest inventory and forest inventory.
• Inventory Assistance: Assisted stakeholders in inventory distribution,
accounting, and forecasting.
• Inventory and Pricing Control: Implemented inventory and pricing control for
online inventory management.
Accomplishments:
• Individual Management: Individually managed inventory for large clients such
as Coles, Myers, Downtown Duty-Free, and Australia Post.
• Best Inventory Service Contractor: Demonstrated excellence as the best
inventory service contractor on behalf of the company.
• Personnel Training: Trained personnel in all inventory counting procedures
using fully auditable methods within 3 months of joining.
• Thorough Understanding: Gained thorough understanding of inventory
management systems for the largest clients in the versatile industry sector.
Education
Central Queensland University
Masters in Accounting MOA, Accounting · (2005 - 2007)
Sardar Patel University
Masters in Science (M.Sc.), Mathematics Physics & Chemistry  · (2003 - 2005)



Contact


www.linkedin.com/in/upp275
(LinkedIn)
Top Skills
Data Analytics
Data Visualization
Leadership
Languages
Punjabi (Limited Working)
English (Native or Bilingual)
Urdu (Elementary)
Gujarati (Native or Bilingual)
Sanskrit (Limited Working)
Hindi (Native or Bilingual)
Certifications
SAP BusinessObjects Business
Intelligence
Python Complete Course
Tableau Training
Applied Data Science with Python
